

Bandit OverTheWire - Levels 16 to 25 Write-Up
Welcome to my Bandit OverTheWire Challenge write-up! In this guide, I’ll walk you through the solutions and the steps I took to complete levels 16 to 25. Bandit is a great way to practice Linux commands and hone your cybersecurity skills.

Level 16 ? Level 17
Objective: Find the password for level 17.

Solution:

We need to access a file that is only readable by bandit17. It’s located in /etc/bandit_pass/bandit17.

The hint for this level is that the password can only be accessed by reading the file using the correct permissions.

Steps:

We’ll use sudo and the cat command to read the file.

sudo cat /etc/bandit_pass/bandit17
This gives us the password for level 17.

Level 17 ? Level 18
Objective: Find the password for level 18.

Solution:

The password is hidden inside a file with restricted permissions.

The clue is to look for the password in a file called readme inside a hidden directory.

Steps:

Use find to locate the file.

find / -type f -name "readme"
Once we find the file, read its contents using cat:

cat /path/to/readme
Level 18 ? Level 19
Objective: Find the password for level 19.

Solution:

The password for level 19 is hidden in a file inside a directory called /var/. This file is readable only if you are part of the bandit18 group.

Steps:

First, check if you belong to the bandit18 group:

groups
Once you confirm your group membership, use cat to read the file.

cat /var/flag
Level 19 ? Level 20
Objective: Find the password for level 20.

Solution:

The password is located inside a file called secret.

The trick is that the file is hidden using a basic encoding method.

Steps:

Use base64 to decode the file:

base64 -d secret
Level 20 ? Level 21
Objective: Find the password for level 21.

Solution:

The password for level 21 is hidden in a text file.

The file is located in a directory that is restricted and needs to be accessed using a specific permission.

Steps:

Access the restricted directory and use cat to read the file:

cat /restricted/file
Level 21 ? Level 22
Objective: Find the password for level 22.

Solution:

The password is hidden inside a compressed .tar.gz archive.

We need to extract and read the file to get the password.

Steps:

Use tar to extract the contents of the .tar.gz archive:

tar -xzvf secret.tar.gz
Once extracted, look for the password inside the directory:

cat /path/to/extracted/file
Level 22 ? Level 23
Objective: Find the password for level 23.

Solution:

The password is encoded in a file using a substitution cipher.

Use a tool like rot13 to decode the message.

Steps:

Use cat and rot13 to decode the password:

cat /path/to/ciphered/file | tr 'A-Za-z' 'N-ZA-Mn-za-m'
Level 23 ? Level 24
Objective: Find the password for level 24.

Solution:

The password is hidden in a file, but the file is encrypted using a basic password-based encryption method.

We need to use openssl to decrypt the file.

Steps:

Decrypt the file using openssl with the password provided:

openssl enc -d -aes-256-cbc -in encryptedfile.enc -out decryptedfile.txt
Open the decrypted file and find the password.

Level 24 ? Level 25
Objective: Find the password for level 25.

Solution:

The password for level 25 is hidden in a file that requires an advanced decryption method.

The file is inside a locked directory that can only be accessed with a cryptographic key.

Steps:

First, get the cryptographic key from the system:

cat /path/to/cryptokey
Use gpg to decrypt the file:

gpg --decrypt encryptedfile.gpg
Read the decrypted file to find the password.

